>> THE MOTION IS NOT ADOPTED.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
LONG-SOUGHT TRADE DEAL HANGS IN
LIMBO, AFTER A KEY PART OF THE
BILL GOES DOWN TO A STINGING
DEFEAT AT THE HANDS OF HIS OWN
PARTY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, NEW BREAKTHROUGHS IN
EBOLA VACCINES MAY BE WEST
AFRICA'S BEST HOPE TO STAVE OFF
THE VIRUS.
BUT RUNNING THE TRIALS IN ONE OF
THE WORLD'S POOREST COUNTRIES
PRESENTS A NEW HOST OF
CHALLENGES.
>> RIGHT NOW, TIMING AND
TEMPERATURE ARE ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL.
AND THEN IT HAPPENS.
>> Woodruff: CLASSIC ACTION
FILMS GET BIG BUDGET REBOOTS,
AND WOMEN GET THE LAST LAUGH AS
LEADS IN COMEDIES.
A LOOK AT SOME OF THE TRENDS
BEHIND THE BLOCKBUSTER MOVIES
SWEEPING THE SUMMER.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE A FULL WEEK OF NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: HACKERS LINKED TO
CHINA MAY HAVE ACCESSED
SENSITIVE BACKGROUND INFORMATION
OF INTELLIGENCE AND MILITARY
PERSONNEL.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
TODAY OFFICIALS BELIEVE IT
INVOLVED SECURITY CLEARANCE
FORMS WITH POSSIBLE INFORMATION
ABOUT MENTAL ILLNESS, DRUG AND
ALCOHOL USE, PAST ARRESTS OR
BANKRUPTCIES.
IT'S THE SECOND CYBERSECURITY
BREACH OF FEDERAL RECORDS IN THE
PAST WEEK.
THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT WAS THE TARGET OF THE
HACK AND HAS YET TO NOTIFY
PEOPLE WHOSE DATA WAS BREACHED.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS IN NEW
YORK REFOCUSED THEIR SEARCH FOR
TWO ESCAPED CONVICTS AFTER
REPORTS TWO MEN WERE SEEN
JUMPING A STONE WALL.
THE MANHUNT STRETCHED INTO A
SEVENTH DAY, AS THERE WAS
CONFIRMATION A FEMALE PRISON
EMPLOYEE GAVE THE INMATES
CONTRABAND BUT NOT THE POWER
TOOLS THEY USED TO BREAK OUT.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY ANDREW WYLIE
NEW YORK STATE POLICE ARRESTED
GEORGE MITCHELL FOR PROVIDING
ASSISTANCE TO HELP THE TWO
INMATES ESCAPE.
EARLIER IN THE DAY, DISTRICT
ATTORNEY ANDREW WILEY SAID
MITCHELL HAD A RELATIONSHIP WITH
ONE OF THE MEN.
>> THERE WASN'T ENOUGH
INFORMATION TO EITHER BLOCK HER
OUT OF THE FACILITY, HAVE SOME
SORT OF FORMAL CHARGES WITHIN
THE FACILITY FILED AGAINST HER.
BUT ACTION WAS TAKEN I THINK TO
SEPARATE THE TWO OF THEM FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME.
MITCHELL AND HER HUSBAND BOTH
WORKED AT THE CORRECTIONAL
FACILITY.
WATER OFFICIALS IN CALIFORNIA
ORDERED THE LARGEST CUTS ON
RECORD FOR FARMERS TODAY, TO TRY
AND COPE WITH A NOW FOUR YEAR
LONG DROUGHT.
THE ORDER AFFECTS THOUSANDS OF
FARMERS, SOME OF WHOM HOLD THE
STRONGEST AND OLDEST LEGAL WATER
RIGHTS IN THE STATE.
TODAY'S DECISION INCLUDES
CALIFORNIA'S SACRAMENTO, SAN
JOAQUIN AND DELTA WATERSHEDS.
MANY OF THE FARMERS AFFECTED
ARGUE THE STATE HAS NO AUTHORITY
TO MANDATE THE CUTS.
THE FORMER HEAD OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND,
DOMINQUE STRAUSS-KAHN, WAS
CLEARED OF PIMPING CHARGES
TODAY.
HE WAS SEEN LEAVING FOR A COURT
IN LILLE, FRANCE, BUT MADE NO
APPEARANCE AFTER THE VERDICT.
THE TRIAL CENTERED ON SEX
PARTIES WITH PROSTITUTES DURING
THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS.
STRAUSS-KAHN SAID HE DIDN'T KNOW
THE WOMEN WERE PROSTITUTES AND
NEEDED THE, QUOTE, "RECREATIONAL
SESSIONS" TO RELIEVE STRESS.
IN GERMANY, PROSECUTORS CLOSED
THEIR INVESTIGATION INTO THE
ALLEGED TAPPING OF CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL'S CELL PHONE BY
THE U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY.
THE PROBE WAS OPENED LAST YEAR
AFTER N.S.A. LEAKER EDWARD
SNOWDEN SAID HE HAD DOCUMENTS
PROVING HER PHONE WAS BUGGED.
PROSECUTORS SAID THEY WERE
UNABLE TO FIND EVIDENCE THAT
WOULD STAND UP IN COURT.
GREEK STOCKS TUMBLED TODAY ON
NEWS THAT THE COUNTRY'S DEBT
TALKS WITH EUROPEAN CREDITORS IN
BRUSSELS ARE UNRAVELING.
WITH ONE WEEK TO GO BEFORE THE
NEGOTIATION DEADLINE, EUROPEAN
UNION OFFICIALS HELD THEIR FIRST
MEETINGS ON A "PLAN B" IF ATHENS
SHOULD DEFAULT ON ITS LOANS.
BUT IN BERLIN, GERMAN CHANCELLOR
MERKEL URGED ALL PARTIES TO KEEP
ON NEGOTIATING.
ON NEGOTIATING. >> (
translated): AND ON
GREECE
>> (translated): AND ON
GREECE I WOULD LIKE TO SAY, AND
I HAVE
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY, AND I HAVE
REPEATED THIS OVER THE LAST FEW
DAYS-- WHERE THERE'S A WILL
THERE'S A WAY, SO IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WE KEEP SPEAKING WITH EACH
OTHER
>> Woodruff: AFTER EUROPEAN
MARKETS CLOSED, GREEK OFFICIALS
INDICATED THEY WOULD PRESENT NEW
PROPOSALS OVER THE WEEKEND.
UNCERTAINTY OVER THE GREEK DEBT
TALKS SENT RIPPLES THROUGH THE
U.S. STOCK MARKET.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
140 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,900.
THE NASDAQ FELL 31 POINTS.
THE S-AND-P-500 DROPPED 15.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
THREE-TENTHS OF A PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ ROSE A TENTH OF A
PERCENT.
AND THE S-AND-P LOST THREE-
TENTHS OF A PERCENT.
AND THE REPUBLICAN PARTY OF IOWA
HAS DROPPED ITS FAMED STRAW
POLL.
IT HAD BEEN A STAPLE PRE-
ELECTION-YEAR EVENT FOR G.O.P.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES SINCE
1979, BUT THERE WAS WANING
INTEREST AMONG 2016 HOPEFULS.
THE PARTY VOTED UNANIMOUSLY TO
CANCEL THE EVENT IN A CONFERENCE
CALL TODAY.
IT HAD BEEN SCHEDULEFOR D AUGUST
8TH IN THE CENTRAL IOWA CITY OF
BOONE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WHAT'S NEXT FOR PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S TRADE BILL, AFTER MORE
THAN 100 HOUSE DEMOCRATS ABANDON
IT;
THE FRONT LINES OF FIGHTING
EBOLA: LABS IN SIERRA LEONE,
WHERE NEW VACCINES ARE BEING
TESTED;
HOW ONE FORMER CAPTIVE IS
WORKING TO FREE JAILED
JOURNALISTS IN IRAN;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS;
AND, BEATING THE HEAT WITH THIS
YEAR'S CROP OF SUMMER
BLOCKBUSTERS.
>> Woodruff: THE DEBATE OVER
TRADE SAW ONE OF ITS MOST
DRAMATIC DAYS YET, AS THE U.S.
HOUSE EFFECTIVELY REJECTED A
COMBINATION OF PROPOSALS THAT
TOGETHER WOULD GIVE THE
PRESIDENT SO-CALLED "FAST-TRACK"
TRADE AUTHORITY.
OUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS BEGINS OUR COVERAGE
WITH THE SURPRISE IN-PERSON
LOBBYING EFFORT FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> Reporter: HOURS BEFORE
TODAY'S SHOWDOWN VOTE, PRESIDENT
OBAMA MADE A RARE, LAST-DITCH
APPEAL TO HOUSE DEMOCRATS ON
CAPITOL HILL REBELLING AGAINST
HIS TRADE AGENDA.
THE SO-CALLED "FAST-TRACK" TRADE
LEGISLATION WOULD HELP PAVE THE
WAY FOR THE MULTI-NATION SO-
"TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP" DEAL
THAT'S NEAR COMPLETION; IT'S A
KEY COMPONENT OF THE PRESIDENT'S
ECONOMIC AGENDA.
THE BILL WILL ALLOW THE
PRESIDENT TO FINALIZE GLOBAL
TRADE DEALS THAT CONGRESS CAN
EITHER VOTE UP OR DOWN, BUT NOT
AMEND.
AFTER THE 30-MINUTE MORNING
MEETING, THE PRESIDENT SEEMED
UNSURE IF HE'D SECURED HIS OWN
PARTY'S SUPPORT.
>> I DON'T THINK YOU EVER NAIL
ANYTHING DOWN AROUND HERE.
IT'S ALWAYS MOVING.
>> Reporter: CALIFORNIA'S BRAD
SHERMAN WAS PRETTY CLEARLY UN-
MOVED.
>> DID HE PERSUADE ME THAT OUR
THAT THAT'S A GOOD POLICY?
NO.
>> Reporter: BUT RON KIND OF
WISCONSIN DID PLEDGE SUPPORT.
>> FOR US AS A CAUCUS NOW NOT
EVEN TO GIVE HIM THE DECENCY OR
THE RESPECT TO TRUST HIM A
LITTLE BIT, TO TRY TO GO OUT AND
NEGOTIATE A GOOD TRADE AGREEMENT
THAT WE WILL HAVE PLENTY OF TIME
IN THE FUTURE TO ANALYZE AND
DETERMINE WHETHER IT MAKES SENSE
FOR OUR DISTRICT, OUR STATES OR
OUR COUNTRY, I THINK IS SELLING
THIS ADMINISTRATION SHORT.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT
WASN'T THE ONLY ONE MAKING A
>> DO YOU KNOW ABOUT FAST TRACK?
FULL-COURT CAPITOL PRESS.
>> Reporter: ANTI-FAST-TRACK
ACTIVISTS MADE THEIR OPINIONS
KNOWN OUTSIDE.
AND IF YOU KNEW WHERE TO LOOK,
YOU COULD SEE LOBBYISTS
SUPPORTING THE DEAL QUICKLY
WORKING THEIR CELL PHONES A FEW
STEPS AWAY.
INSIDE, ON THE HOUSE FLOOR,
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER INSISTED
THE TRADE LEGISLATION IS CRUCIAL
TO AMERICA'S PROSPERITY.
>> WHEN AMERICA LEADS, THE WORLD
IS SAFER FOR FREEDOM AND FOR
FREE ENTERPRISE.
AND WHEN WE DON'T LEAD, WE'RE
ALLOWING AND FRANKLY ESSENTIALLY
INVITING CHINA TO GO RIGHT ON
SETTING THE RULES OF THE WORLD
ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: BOEHNER DOESN'T
TYPICALLY VOTE ON BILLS BUT MADE
AN EXCEPTION TODAY.
WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN PAUL RYAN,
THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE WAYS AND
MEANS COMMITTEE, ECHOED HIS
SUPPORT.
>> IF WE WANT TO CREATE MORE
JOBS IN AMERICA, WE'VE GOT TO
MAKE MORE THINGS HERE IN AMERICA
AND SELL THEM OVER THERE.
>> Reporter: BUT DEMOCRATS LIKE
DEBBIE DINGELL OF MICHIGAN
CHARGED THE LEGISLATION ACTUALLY
HARMS U.S. JOB CREATION.
>> THE VOTE TODAY IS WHY I CAME
TO CONGRESS.
I PROMISED THE WORKING MEN AND
WOMEN IN MY DISTRICT THAT I
WOULD FIGHT TO MAKE SURE THEY
HAD A SEAT AT THE TABLE WHEN WE
WERE MAKING DECISIONS THAT
IMPACT THEIR LIFE AND THEIR
LIVELIHOOD.
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!
CONGRESS CANNOT ABDICATE ITS
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE WORKING
MEN OF THIS COUNY.TR
>> Reporter: DEMOCRATS FACED A
KIND OF SOPHIE'S CHOICE, THE
BILL THEY OPPOSED, T.P.A. OR
FAST-TRACK ABILITY FOR THE
PRESIDENT, DEPENDED ON PASSAGE
OF A BILL THAT DEMOCRATS HAVE
TRADITIONALLY LOVED.
THAT IS CALLED T.A.A., OR TRADE
ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY.
DEMOCRATS SUPPORT IT BUT THEY
BLOCKED IT TODAY IN ORDER TO TRY
TO TAKE DOWN THE FAST-TRACK
TRADE BILL.
>> ONE OF THE DEMOCRATS,
MINORITY LEADER NANCY PELOSI.
>> I'M PREPARED TO VOTE AGAINST
T.A.A. BECAUSE THEN ITS DEFEAT,
SAD TO SAY, IS THE ONLY WAY THAT
WE'LL BE ABLE TO SLOW DOWN THE
FAST TRACK.
>> Reporter: THAT VOTE ON THE
T.A.A. CAME IN THE EARLY
AFTERNOON AND, IT WENT DOWN IN A
ROUT, 302 TO 126.
REPUBLICAN LEADERS THEN HELD THE
VOTE ON THE "FAST TRACK" TRADE
AUTHORITY, AT THAT POINT A
SYMBOLIC GESTURE.
THAT NARROWLY PASSED, 219 TO
211, LARGELY WITH REPUBLICAN
VOTES.
BUT AGAIN, BOTH T.A.A. AND
T.P.A. NEEDED PASSAGE FOR THE
OVERALL LEGISLATION TO BECOME
LAW.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESS
SECRETARY JOSH EARNEST TRIED TO
STRIKE AN OPTIMISTIC TONE.
>> THERE WAS A LOT OF SKEPTICISM
ABOUT HOW MUCH DEMOCRATIC
SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT WOULD
SUCCEED AT BUILDING AND GETTING
THE SUPPORT OF 28 HOUSE
DEMOCRATS IS A GOOD SIGN OF THE
KIND OF BIPARTISAN MAJORITY THE
PRESIDENT WAS SEEKING TO BUILD.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT NOW?
REPUBLICAN LEADERS PLAN TO HOLD
ANOTHER HOUSE VOTE ON THE T.A.A.
BY TUESDAY.
IF IT PASSES, THE PRESIDENT WILL
GET THE FAST-TRACK TRADE
AUTHORITY HE WANTS.
BUT HOW TO GET THOSE VOTES, THAT
REMAINS UNCLEAR.
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, THE
PRESIDENT LOST MORE THAN 140
DEMOCRATS ON A CRUCIAL TRADE
VOTE TODAY, MORE THAN EXPECTED.
LAST NIGHT, WE HEARD FROM WHITE
HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY JOSH
EARNEST.
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM A HOUSE
DEMOCRAT, WHO'S BEEN A VOCAL
OPPONENT.
REPRESENTATIVE PETER DEFAZIO IS
FROM OREGON.
I SPOKE WITH HIM LATE THIS
AFTERNOON.
WELCOME, CONGRESSMAN PETER
DEFAZIO.
CONGRESSMAN, IN VOTING DOWN THIS
TRADE LEGISLATION, SOMETHING THE
PRESIDENT HAS LOBBIED FOR FOR
MONTHS, THIS WAS A DIRECT REBUKE
TO HIM, WASN'T IT?
>> IT'S A REBUKE TO THE POLICY
HE'S TRYING TO PUSH THROUGH
CONGRESS WITH FAST-TRACK
AUTHORITY, NO AMENDMENTS
ALLOWED, UP OR DOWN VOTE ONLY
FOR THE LARGEST TRADE AGREEMENT
IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES, 29 CHAPTERS LONG, AND IT
WAS REVIEWED FOR WHAT WE KNOW OF
THOSE POLICIES.
IT'S A CLASSIFIED DOCUMENT MANY
OF US HAVE READ PART OF IT.
IT DOES NOT DO MANY TO HAVE THE
THINGS HE PURPORTS IT DOES.
IT DOES NOT HAVE ENFORCEABLE
LABOR STANDARDS OR ENFORCEABLE
ENVIRONMENT STANDARD AND DOESN'T
DO ANYTHING FOR CURRENCY
MANIPULATION, HE ADMITS THAT,
AND SETS UP NEW SECRET, PRIVATE
TRIBUNALS WHICH ARE ONLY
ACCESSIBLE BY MULTI-NATIONAL
CORPORATIONS WHERE THEY CAN
CHALLENGE OUR DOMESTIC LIFE.
THAT'S PRETTY AMAZING STUFF.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN, YOU
TOLD REPORTERS EARLIER THAT THE
PRESIDENT HURT HIS OWN CAUSE, IN
EFFECT, BY WHAT HE SAID TO
MEMBERS WHEN HE MET WITH YOU
EARLIER TODAY.
WHAT DID HE SAY?
>> WELL, HE FEELS LIKE HE'S
BEING PERSONALLY ATTACKED.
WE'RE NOT ATTACKING HILL
PERSONALLY NOR HIS MOTIVES BUT
HE WENT ON AT SOME LENGTH ABOUT
THAT.
WE ARE OPPOSED TO THE POLICIES
HE'S PUTTING FORWARD.
SECONDLY, HE QUESTIONED US
SAYING WE WEREN'T BEING
STRAIGHT, IMPLYING WE WERE BEING
LESS THAN HONEST BY USING THE
ONLY VEHICLE WE HAD TO SLOW THIS
THING DOWN WHICH WAS VOTING DOWN
TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.
I FOUND THAT OFFENSIVE AS DID
MANY OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: WE INTERVIEWED
JOSH EARNEST, THE WHITE HOUSE
PRESS SECRETARY ON THE
"NewsHour" LAST NIGHT.
HE SAID IT DOES HAVE ENFORCEABLE
LABOR STANDARDS, HE SAYS IT DOES
HAVE ENFORCEABLE ENVIRONMENTAL
STANDARDS.
HE TALKED ABOUT IT'S GOING TO
CREATE JOBS.
ARE YOU SAYING THE WHITE HOUSE
IS MISTAKEN OR WHAT?
>> PROBABLY THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
BEEN BRIEFED BY THEIR SPECIAL
TRADE REPRESENTATIVE WHO'S A
SALESMAN, AND, YOU KNOW, I HAVE
READ THOSE CHAPTERS, I CAN'T
TALK ABOUT THEM IN DETAIL
BECAUSE THEY'RE CLASSIFIED, BUT
LET ME JUST SAY THIS, THE USE OF
THE WORD "MAY" DOES NOT SOUND
LIKE A BINDING STANDARD TO ME.
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME ALSO
QUOTE TO YOU FROM WHAT ONE OF
YOUR FELLOW DEMOCRATIC
CONGRESSMEN RON KIND SAID.
WE JUST HEARD HIM TELL OUR
REPORTER LISA DESJARDINS, HE
SAID FOR OUR CAUCUS NOT TO EVEN
GIVE THE PRESIDENT, IN HIS
WORDS, THE DECENCY OR RESPECT TO
TRUST HIM A LITTLE BIT TO GO OUT
AND NEGOTIATE A TRADE AGREEMENT,
HE SAID, IS SELLING THE
ADMINISTRATION SHORT.
>> WE HAVE READ IN CLASSIFIED
FORM WHICH WE CAN'T TALK ABOUT
THE PROPOSED DOCUMENT.
WE SEE SECTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
WRITTEN BY CORPORATIONS AND
CONFIRMED IN E-MAILS THAT THEY
WERE WRITTEN BY CORPORATIONS AND
INSERTED INTO THAT BILL.
WE JUST SAW LAST NIGHT THE
REPUBLICANS REPEALED COUNTRY OF
ORIGIN AND 90% OF THE PEOPLE
SUPPORT THAT BECAUSE OF A WEAKER
TRADE AGREEMENT WHERE WE CAN'T
BE CHALLENGED BY THE
CORPORATIONS.
OTHER GOVERNMENTS THAN THIS ONE,
NEW CORPORATION CAN CHALLENGE
ANY LAW.
THE PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES ARE
A BIG WIN AROUND WE KNOW THEY
WILL CHALLENGE OUR REQUIREMENT
THAT THEY GIVE LOWEST PRICE TO
MEDICAID PATIENTS AND REDUCED
PRICES TO MEDICATE PART D AND
OUR PURCHASING FOR VETERANS.
THE PRESIDENT IS RIGHT, THEY
CAN'T MAKE US REPEAL THOSE LAWS,
THEY CAN JUST MAKE US PAY TO
KEEP THEM.
THAT'S WHY LAST NIGHT THE
REPUBLICANS REFIELD COUNTRY OF
ORIGIN MEAT LABELING BECAUSE WE
WOULD HAVE HAD TO PAY $3 BILLION
A YEAR TO LABEL WHERE YOUR MEAT
CAME FROM.
VERY LITTLE IS ABOUT TRADE OR
TARIFF.
IT'S ALL ABOUT MAKING IT SAFE
FOR MORE U.S. COMPANIES TO MOVE
JOBS OVERSEAS.
>> Woodruff: ONE THING I WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT, IN VOTING AS
MANY DEMOCRATS LIKE YOU DID, YOU
VOTED DOWN SOMETHING THE
DEMOCRATS NORMALLY SUPPORT WITH
A LOT OF PASSION, AND THAT IS
ASSISTANCE FOR WORKERS WHO'VE
LOST THEIR JOBS.
WHAT HAPPENS TO THAT LEGISLATION
AND TO THAT SUPPORT, NOW?
>> WELL, FIRST OFF, IT WAS A
VERY INADEQUATELY FUNDED
PROVISION AND THE REPUBLICANS
PROPOSED A FUND BY CUTTING
MEDICARE.
WE DIDN'T MUCH LIKE THAT.
SECONDLY, THIS TRADE AGREEMENT
IS SO BIG, THERE ARE GOING TO BE
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF JOBS
LOST AND, YOU KNOW, THAT TRADE
ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE PACKAGE
WOULD NOT BE ADEQUATE.
THIRD, WE'RE LEGISLATORS.
WE ARE 85% OF THE DEMOCRATIC
CAUCUS IS OPPOSED TO THE
TRANS-PACIFIC UNDER THE
CONDITIONS THE PRESIDENT IS
PUTTING IT FORWARD AND THAT WAS
OUR ONLY LEGISLATIVE OPPORTUNITY
TO DERAIL THIS THING.
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN PETER
DEFAZIO JOINING US FROM THE THE
CAPITOL.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE LAST IN
OUR SERIES ON EBOLA IN WEST
AFRICA, TONIGHT A LOOK AT NEW
RESEARCH TO HELP STOP OR SLOW
THE NEXT OUTBREAK.
THE BEST HOPE MAY ULTIMATELY
COME FROM A NEW VACCINE.
SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT MILES
O'BRIEN REPORTS, PART OF HIS
SERIES ON "CRACKING EBOLA'S
CODE."
>> Reporter: IT'S DARK AND EARLY
IN FREETOWN SIERRA LEONE.
A TEAM OF PHARMACISTS IS IN A
NONDESCRIPT GOVERNMENT BUILDING
PREPARING THEAY'S D SUPPLY OF AN
EXPERIMENTAL VACCINE AGAINST
EBOLA.
THE CLOCK STARTS RUNNING WHEN
THEY TAKE THE VACCINE OUT OF A
VERY DEEP FREEZE.
THIS IS LIKELY THE COLDEST SPOT
IN THE WHOLE COUNTRY.
THE VACCINE CAN ONLY BE THAWED
OUT RIGHT BEFORE IT IS INJECTED,
OR IT WILL LOSE ITS POTENCY AND
ALL OF THIS WILL BE A WASTE OF
TIME, MONEY AND HOPE.
SO RIGHT NOW, TIMING AND
TEMPERATURE ARE ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL.
AND THEN IT HAPPENS.
>> THE POWER WENT OUT.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER REMINDER OF
HOW HARD IT IS TO CONDUCT A
HIGH-TECH VACCINE TRIAL IN ONE
OF THE POOREST COUNTRIES ON THE
PLANET.
BUT THEY ARE READY: THEY'VE GOT
TWO BACKUP GENERATORS FOR THE
BUILDING, SOLAR CHARGED
BATTERIES, AND IF ALL ELSE
FAILS, A SPECIAL CONTAINER THAT
MAINTAINS ABOUT 100 DEGREES
BELOW ZERO FAHRENHEIT FOR FIVE
DAYS, WITHOUT POWER.
PHARMACIST MORRISON JUSU IS
DELIVERING THE VACCINE THREE AND
A HALF MILES ACROSS FREETOWN.
AFTER A SEEMINGLY ENDLESS
NATIONAL NIGHTMARE, HE CARRIES A
COOLER FULL OF EXPECTATIONS.
HE KNOWS MUCH IS RIDING THWI
HIM.
>> SOME PEOPLE LOST FAMILY
MEMBERS.
SOME FAMILIES WERE ESSENTIALLY
WIPED-OUT AS A RESULT OF THIS
THING.
IF THIS VACCINE PROVES OUT TO BE
SOMETHING THAT PREVENTS SUCH IN
THE FUTURE, THEN IT'S, WORDS
CANNOT DESCRIBE HOW MUCH RELIEF
THAT WOULD BE TO THIS COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: WHILE JUSU AND THE
VACCINE ARE WENDING THEIR WAY, A
LINE IS GROWING OUTSIDE THEIR
DESTINATION: FREETOWN'S
CONNAUGHT HOSPITAL.
THE VOLUNTEERS START SHOWING UP
BEFORE DAWN.
THEY ARE HEALTHCARE WORKERS,
THIS TRIAL IS LIMITED TO THEM
BECAUSE THEY ARE, BY FAR, THE
MOST AT RISK OF CONTRACTING
EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE.
EVEN THOUGH THERE IS NO EVIDENCE
THE VACCINE POSES ANY REAL
DANGER, THEY MUST WEIGH THE
RUMORS AND THE UNCERTAINTIES.
>> LIFE IS ALL ABOUT RISKS.
BUT I BELIEVE IT WILL BE OF HELP
IN THE JOB THAT I DO.
IN THE JOB THAT I DO. >> (
translated): IT IS A
HIGH
>> (translated): IT
IS A HIGH RISK FOR ME.
RISK FOR ME.
I BELIEVE THIS CAN PROTECT ME
FROM EBOLA AND THAT'S WHY I CAME
HERE FOR THIS VACCINE.
>> Reporter: IT WASN'T ALWAYS
THIS WAY, THE TRIAL GOT OFF TO A
SLOW START WHEN IT BEGAN IN
APRIL, PEOPLE WERE TOO AFRAID.
DR. MOHAMMED SAMAI IS ONE OF THE
PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATORS.
>> PEOPLE SAID THE VACCINE WAS
THE EBOLA VIRUS.
SO ONCE YOU GET IT, YOU BECOME
INFECTED.
SO, A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE NOT
WILLING TO COME FORWARD THERE IN
THE FIRST WEEK TO TAKE THE
VACCINE BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT
THEY SHOULDAIT WAND SEE WHAT
HAPPENS.
>> Reporter: THE VACCINE DOES
CONTAIN A PIECE OF THE EBOLA
VIRUS, A PROTEIN, IT'S ENOUGH TO
TRICK THE BODY INTO TRIGGERING
ITS NATURAL DEFENSES, BUT WON'T
GIVE THE RECIPIENT EBOLA VIRUS
DISEASE.
ON THE WALL IN THE LOBBY OF THE
HOSPITAL: A SPONTANEOUS MEMORIAL
TO SOME OF THE DOCTORS AND
NURSES WHO DIED HERE DURING THE
EPIDEMIC, A GRIM REMINDER OF
WHAT MOTIVATES VOLUNTEERS LIKE
RICHARD KANU.
RICHARD KANU. >> (
translated): I BECAME
>> (translated): I
BECAME AWARE OF IT THROUGH MY
FRIENDS
AWARE OF IT THROUGH MY FRIENDS
WHO GOT THE SHOT THREE DAYS AGO.
SINCE THEY'RE NOT HAVING SIDE
EFFECTS, I DECIDED TO COME AND
HAVE A GO AT IT MYSELF, BECAUSE
I FEEL IT WILL PROTECT ME.
>> Reporter: KANU WORKS ON A
TEAM THAT BURIES THE HIGHLY
CONTAGIOUS DEAD.
HE HAS BEEN SHUNNED BY FRIENDS,
EVEN FORCED OUT OF HIS OWN HOME.
>> I WILL GO BACK AND TELL THEM
THAT I'VE HAD THE VACCINE AND
THEY SHOULD REST ASSURED THAT I
WON'T HAVE THE VIRUS.
I WILL PROBABLY ENCOURAGE THEM
TO STEP FORWARD AS WELL.
>> Reporter: BAD TRAFFIC DELAYS
JUSU'S RIDE TO THE HOSPITAL, BUT
WHEN HE ARRIVES, EVERYTHING IS
OKAY.
THE VACCINE ISN'T SPOILEDAND,
THE VOLUNTEERS ARE READY.
THE NURSING TEAM DOES NOT WASTE
ANYIME TPREPPING FOR THE
"JABS."
ARUNA THORLIE IS A CHLORINE
SPRAYER WHO DISINFECTS EBOLA
TREATMENT UNITS.
HAVE YOU FELT ANYTHING
DIFFERENT?
DID IT HURT OR ANYTHING?
>> I FEEL THE SAME AS I DID
BEFORE.
I HOPE AND PRAY THAT IT WORKS.
>> Reporter: THE VACCINE IS MADE
BY MERCK.
THE TRIAL IS A PARTNERSHIP
BETWEEN THE SIERRA LEONE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, THE U.S.
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION AND THE MEDICAL
COLLEGE IN FREETOWN.
>> ONCE WE CAN DOCUMENT THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE VACCINE AND
WE ARE NOW SURE THAT IT CAN
REALLY PROTECT THEM, WE CAN MOVE
TO ANOTHER STAGE WHERE WE LOOK
AT THE COMMUNITY AND THE
POPULATION AT LARGE.
>> Reporter: ACROSS THE BORDER
IN LIBERIA, A SEPARATE TRIAL IS
TESTING THE SAME VACCINE, ALONG
WITH ANOTHER ONE MADE BY GLAXO
SMITH KLINE.
IT IS OPEN TO ALL, AND BASED AT
THIS HOSPITAL IN MONROVIA.
IN THE DARKEST DAYS OF THE
CRISIS HERE IN LIBERIA, A SENIOR
DOCTOR AND NURSE HERE AT
REDEMPTION HOSPITAL CONTRACTED
EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE AND THEY
SUBSEQUENTLY DIED.
MANY OF THE HEALTH CARE WORKERS
HERE BECAME AFRAID TO COME TO
WORK AND THE HOSPITAL HAD TO
CLOSE FOR A TIME.
IN ALL 13 MEMBERS OF THE
HOSPITAL STAFF DIED HERE.
>> IT WAS SCARY.
IT WAS CONFUSING
>> Reporter: DR. MARK KIEH IS
THE SITE PHYSICIAN FOR THE
TRIAL.
SO FAR, THERE ARE 1,500
VOLUNTEERS.
HE IS CAREFULLY WATCHING THEM
FOR SIDE EFFECTS.
SO FAR SO GOOD.
>> THOSE WE'VE SEEN ARE EXPECTED
SIDE EFFECTS OF FEVER, MUSCLE
PAIN, PAIN AT THE INJECTION
SITES, SOME JOINT PAINS, FEW
PEOPLE WITH RASHES THAT RESOLVED
OVER TIME.
>> Reporter: THE TRIAL IS RUN BY
LIBERIA'S MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
THE U.S. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASE.
ITS DIRECTOR, DR. ANTHONY FAUCI,
HAS INTENSE, INTIMATE
UNDERSTANDING OF THE RAVES OAGF
EBOLA.
>> AT LEAST IN THE MOST RECENT
PATIENT THAT WE TOOK CARE OF,
THAT'S ABOUT AS SICK AS YOU CAN
GET WITHOUT DYING.
>> Reporter: ON MARCH 14, 2015,
HE SUITED UP TO TREAT A U.S.
HEALTH CARE WORKER WHO BECAME
INFECTED IN SIERRA LEONE, AND
WAS AIRLIFTED TO THE N.I.H.
HOSPITAL OUTSIDE WASHINGTON
WHERE HE RECEIVED THE HIGHEST
LEVEL OF INTENSIVE CARE
POSSIBLE, IT KEPT HIM ALIVE
WHILE HIS BODY MOUNTED ITS OWN
DEFENSE.
>> Reporter: IT WAS TOUCH AND GO
FOR A WEEK, BUT HE SURVIVED.
>> ALL OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
RECOVERED FROM EBOLA, EVEN THOSE
WHO HAVE BEEN VERY ILL, IT WAS
THEIR IMMUNE SYSTEM THAT
ULTIMATELY SUPPRESSED AND
ELIMINATED THE VIRUS.
>> Reporter: THIS IS WHY FAUCI
AND OTHERS ARE OPTIMISTIC THEY
HAVE A FOUND A WAY TO STOP EBOLA
ITS TRACKS.
THE HUMAN BODY CAN CREATE THE
ANTIBODIES TO FIGHT OFF EBOLA,
BUT USUALLY NOT FAST ENOUGH.
AN EFFECTIVE VACCINE CREATES AN
ARMY OF EBOLA ANTIBODIES THAT
CAN STOP THE VIRUS BEFORE IT
STAMPEDES THROUGH THE BODY.
BUT HERE IS THE IRONIC RUB:
>> IF WE ARE SUCCESSFUL IN
CONTROLLING EBOLA, WE WON'T BE
SUCCESSFUL IN DETERMINING
WHETHER THE VACCINES ARE
EFFECTIVE AT PREVENTING EBOLA.
>> Reporter: DR. TOM FRIEDEN IS
DIRECTOR OF THE C.D.C.
EBOLA CASES IN LIBERIA ARE NOW
AT ZERO, AND SIERRA LEONE IS
CLOSE BEHIND.
>> IF NO ONE IS GETTING EBOLAA
YOU CAN'T TELL FOR SURE IF THE
VACCINE IS PROTECTIVE.
SO THEY HAVE TO RELY ON OTHER
EVIDENCE.
>> Reporter: THE TRIALS UNDERWAY
NOW WILL AT LEAST TELL US
WHETHER THEY'RE SAFE, AND THEY
WILL TELL US WHETHER THEY LEAD
TO AN IMMUNE REACTION.
WE WISH WE WERE FURTHER ALONG
WITH THE VACCINE, BUT IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT TO DO RESEARCH IN THE
MIDDLE OF AN EPIDEMIC.
IN FREETOWN, PHARMACIST MORRISON
JUSU IS AMONG THOSE WHO
SCRAMBLED TO GET THIS TRIAL
UNDERWAY AT ALL.
HE IS ANXIOUS TO KNOW IF THE
HARD WORK WILL PAY OFF.
>> WE ARE REALLY LOOKING FORWARD
TO IT BEING SUCCESSFUL SO THAT
SOMEDAY IN THE FUTURE WE WOULD
BE ABLE TO SAY, "YES, I WAS A
PART OF THAT TEAM AND I
CONTRIBUTED."
IT WILL BE A GREAT FEELING THEN.
>> Reporter: THE ANSWER WILL
HAVE TO WAIT.
T NBUO ONE DOUBTS THE VACCINE
WILL MEET ITS VIRAL F,OE
SOMEDAY.
MILES O'BRIENTHE , PBS NEWSHOUR,
FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE MORE WITH
MILES ONLINE, HE WROTE A
PERSONAL ACCOUNT OF TRAVELING TO
SIERRA LEONE AND THE UNIQUE
CHALLENGES HE HAD AS AN ARM
AMPUTEE.
AND ON THE NEWSHOUR'S PODCAST
"SHORTWAVE" HE SPOKE OF HIS OWN
CLOSE CALL WITH THE VIRUS.
FIND BOTH OF THOSE LINKS ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
IRAN, AND A NEW EFFORT TO BRING
FREEDOM TO THE ALL THE JAILED
REPORTERS THERE.
CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM BRANGHAM
HAS MORE.
>> Brangham: EARLIER THIS
WEEK, "WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER
JASON ROZION HAD HIS SECOND DAY
IN AN IRANIAN COURT.
HE HAS BEEN LOCKED UP IN A
TEHRAN PRISON FOR NEARLY A YEAR,
FACING CHARGES OF ESPIONAGE AND
PROPAGANDA.
VERY LITTLE KNOWN ABOUT THE
PROCEEDINGS.
A REPORT THAT ROUG HE DEFENDED
HIMSELF IN ENGLISH.
THIS WEEK A NEW WEB SITE
LAUNCHED HOPING TO DRAW MORE
ATTENTION TO THOSE DANGERS AND
TO OTHER REPORTERS IMPRISONED IN
IRAN.
THE WEB SITE IS CALLED
JOURNALISM IS NOT A CRIME.com.
ITS FOUNDER IS NO STRANGER TO
THE CAUSE.
MAZIAR BAHARI WAS HELD FOR
MONTHS IN A TEHRAN PRISON AFTER
BEING ARRESTED IN 2009 WHILE ON
ASSIGNMENT FOR NEWS WEEK.
HIS MEMOIR OF THE ORDEAL THEN
THEY CAME FOR ME WAS THE BASIS
FOR JON STEWART'S FILM
"ROSEWATER."
ALSO A FILM ABOUT A FORCED
CONFESSION.
MAZIAR BAHARI, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> NICE TO BE HERE.
>> Brangham: SO YOU KNOW ABOUT
JASON ROZION'S CASE.
HOW MANY OTHER JOURNALISTS ARE
LOCKED UP IN IRAN RIGHT NOW?
>> AT THE MOMENT, WE CAN SAY
ABOUT 50, BECAUSE IT'S A
REVOLVING DOOR.
THEY LET SOME PEOPLE GO OUT OF
PRISON, THEN THEY ARREST SOME
PEOPLE BURKS IRAN'S 50
PROFESSIONAL JOURNALIST AND
BLOGGERS ARE IN PRISON AT THE
MOMENT.
>> Brangham: WHAT IF THEY BEEN
ACCUSED OF DOING?
>> THE OFFICIAL ACCUSATION FOR
MOST OF THESE PEOPLE IS
ENDANGERING THE THE NATIONAL
SECURITY.
BUT THAT CAN INCLUDE REVEALING
SECRETS, DEALING BETWEEN
DIFFERENT GOVERNMENTS, OR IT CAN
BE JUST EXPOSING CORRUPTION IN A
SCHOOL.
SO ANYTHING FROM A MINOR
REPORTING -- INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING TO A MAJOR STORY CAN
BE REGARDED AS UNDERMINING
NATIONAL SECURITY.
>> Brangham: SO IT'S THIS
INCREDIBLY BROAD DEFINITION
ALLOWS THE GOVERNMENT TO LOCK
PEOPLE UP WHOSE VIEWS THEY DON'T
SEEM TO LIKE.
>> THAT IS THE PROBLEM WITH
RIERN THAT THE GOVERNMENT --
WITH IRAN THAT THE GOVERNMENT
BECAUSE IT'S NOT SECURE WITHIN
ITS OWN LEGITIMACY IS TRYING TO
MAKE EVERYONE'S LIFE AS INSECURE
AS POSSIBLE.
THEY WANT EVERYONE TO BE ON
THEIR TOES, THEY WANT EVERYONE
TO BE CAREFUL ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE
WRITING, WHAT THEY ARE SAYING,
WHAT THEY ARE PUBLISHING.
>> Brangham: DO YOU HAVE ANY
SENSE OF HOW THESE REPORTERS ARE
BEING TREATED WHILE THEY'RE
LOCKED UP?
>> IT DEPENDS.
ONE OF THE REASONS IS WE STARTED
THIS PROJECT IS TO MAKE THE
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE FOR WHAT
IT DOES.
WHEN PRESIDENT ROUHANI OR HIS
FOREIGN MINISTER CAME TO THE
UNITED STATES AND THE
JOURNALISTS ASK THEM WHY DO YOU
ARREST JOURNALISTS, THEY SAY
THIS IS NOT OUR
RESPONSIBLABILITY, THE IRANIAN
JUDICIARY IS AN INDEPENDENT BODY
AND WE ARE NOT INVOLVED.
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THE
JUDICIARY, THEY SAY IT IS
BECAUSE OF OTHER CRIMES, NOT
JOURNALISM.
SO NO ONE WANTS TO TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR WHAT HAPPENS
IN IRAN.
WE WANT TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE
INTERROGATION THEY ARE
SUFFERING, THE TORTURE THEY'RE
SUFFERING, THEIR PHYSICAL
TORTURE AND PSYCHOLOGICAL
TORTURE AND, IN MY OWN
EXPERIENCE, WE KNOW THAT, IF YOU
WAVE THE PROFILE OF A JOURNALIST
OR OF ANY OTHER PRISONER IN
IRAN, THE POSSIBILITY OF
PHYSICAL TORTURE OR OF THEM
SUFFERING PHYSICAL TORTURE OR
PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE IS LESS.
WHEN YOU'RE UNKNOWN IN AN
UNKNOWN PRISON IN IRAN, THERE IS
MORE CHANCE OF YOU SUFFERING
FROM PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PHYSICAL
TORTURE, AND THERE IS ALSO MORE
CHANCE OF YOU GETTING KILLED BY
AN INTERROGATOR WHO IS NOT
ACCOUNTABLE TO ANYONE.
>> Brangham: HOW FAR DOES THAT
ACCOUNTABILITY GO?
WE'VE HEARD REPORTS JOHN KERRY
IN THE U.S. GOVERNMENT BROUGHT
UP THE CASE OF JASON REPEATEDLY
WITH THE IRANIAN GOVERNMENT YET
HE REMAINS CLOUDED IN SECRECY IN
THIS HORRIBLE CIRCUMSTANCE.
HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK YOUR
PROJECT CAN REALLY DO TO CHANGE
THE OUTCOMES FOR THESE
REPORTERS?
>> WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE THE
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE,
BUT OUR PROJECT ALSO TRIES TO
HELP INDIVIDUAL IRANIAN
JOURNALISTS TO HAVE LEGAL AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL HELP.
WHEN I CAME OUT OF PRISON, AFTER
107 DAYS IN SOLITAIRE
CONFINEMENT, 118 DAYS IN PRISON,
I WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO HAVE
"NEWSWEEK" MAGAZINE AS MY
EMPLOYER.
THEY PROVIDED A LAWYER FOR ME,
THEY PROVIDED A PSYCHOLOGIST FOR
ME, BUT MOST OF MY COLLEAGUES IN
IRAN DO NOT HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY.
SO WHAT WE DO IS WE HAVE A LEGAL
TEAM WHO CAN HELP THE JOURNALIST
AND THEIR FAMILIES WITH THEIR
LEGAL QUESTIONS AND ALSO WE HAVE
PSYCHOLOGISTS ON OUR TEAM THAT
THEY CAN HELP THEM.
JASON'S CASE, UNFORTUNATELY, HAS
BECOME -- I CAN SAY JASON IS A
VICTIM OF INFIGHTING BETWEEN THE
DIFFERENT FACTIONS WITHIN THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARRESTED JASON
ARE THE REVOLUTIONARY, THEY ALSO
ARRESTED ME.
THEY ARE TRYING TO USE JASON'S
CASE AS A LEVERAGE AGAINST THE
ROUHANI GOVERNMENT DURING THE
NEGOTIATIONS.
UNFORTUNATELY, THIS IS THE
SITUATION FOR JASON AND MANY
OTHER JOURNALISTS THAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS USING THEM FOR
DIFFERENT -- FOR A VARIETY OF
REASONS.
>> Brangham: THE WEB SITE IS
JOURNALISM IS NOT A CRIME.com.
MAZIAR BAHARI, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR COMING IN.
>> NICE TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: WITH THE SHOWDOWN
ON TRADE IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES TODAY AND
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ON THE
TRAIL, THERE'S LOTS TO TALK
ABOUT IN OUR WEEKLY ANALYSIS
SESSION WITH SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
GENTLEMEN, WE TALKED ABOUT IT AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE SHOW.
MARK, THE PRESIDENT HAS LOBBIED
FOR THIS FOR MONTHS.
IT WENT DOWN TO DEFEAT.
WHAT HAPPENED AND WHERE DO YOU
SEE THIS GOING?
>> I THINTHEK PRESIDENT WAS
FIGHTING UPHILL, JUDY.
THE LEADERSHIP IN THE DEMOCRATS
AND THE HOUSE TOLD HIM NOT TO
COME UP, NOT UNLIKE HIS TRIP TO
GET THE OLYMPICS TO THE
SCANDINAVIANS IN CHICAGO AND
DIDN'T MAKE IT TO THE SECOND
BALLOT.
YOU HAD 85% DEMOCRATS ALREADY
MADE UP THEIR MIND ON.
THIS IT ISN'T A QUESTION WHETHER
TRADE IS GOOD FOR ECONOMIC
GROWTH, IT IS, BUT THE BENEFITS
HAVE BEEN UNEVENLY DISTRIBUTED
IN THIS COUNTRY, AND THE BURDEN
OF CHANGE HAS BEEN UNEVENLY
DISTRIBUTED.
ORGANIZED LABOR WORKED LONG AND
HARD AGAINST THIS, T BUTHE
REALITIES OF EMPTY FACTORIES, OF
LOST JOBS, EMPTY STORES, FREE
TRADE HAS BEEN OVERPROMISED AND
UNDERDELIVERED IN THIS COUNTRY
AND I THINK THAT'S THE REALITY
THE PRESIDENT WAS FIGHTING.
>> Woodruff: WHERE DOES THIS
LEAVE THIS?
>> I THINK THEY WILL COME BACK
TO IT.
IT WAS A BIG DEFEAT AND HE
HASN'T EXACTLY PROVEN HIMSELF AN
ABLE SALESMAN.
AS PETER DEFAZIO WAS SAYING,
MAKING IT ABOUT HIMSELF.
THIS HAS BEEN A BIT OF HIS MODE,
MAKING IT PERSONAL AND THEN
SAYING YOU'RE NOT PLAYING
STRAIGHT.
THAT'S PROBABLY NOT THE BEST WAY
TO PERSUADE PEOPLE OVER.
SO HE'S NOT BEEN THE BEST
SALESMAN AND THE PARTIES MOVE TO
THE LEFT AND ESPECIALLY ON
TRADE.
THE SUBSTANCE OF MY PROBLEM IS
WE CAN ARGUE ABOUT NAFTA AND ALL
THE OTHER THINGS, I THINK THEY
HAVE BEEN AMAZINGLY POSITIVE
GOODS, BUT THIS IS NOT LIKE THE
OTHER TRADE AGREEMENTS.
FIRST, THE PRIMARY REASON WE
NEED THIS SPECIFIC ONE IS
POLITICAL AND FOREIGN POLICY.
ASIA WILL BE THE CENTER OF THE
WORLD ECONOMY FOR THE NEXT X
NUMBER OF YEARS AND WE NEED TO
HAVE A GLOBAL ARCHITECTURE
THAT'S STABLE AND DOESN'T
GENERATE ECONOMIC FRICTION AND
THAT CHINA DOESN'T WRITE AND
THIS IS OUR SHOT TO DO IT.
SECOND, THIS ISN'T ABOUT
REDUCING TERRORISTS, THOSE ARE
GONE.
THIS IS ABOUT A BUNCH OF OTHER
THINGS HAVING TO DO WITH
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS,
DATA FLOWS, MAKING SURE OTHER
COUNTRIES CAN'T USE STATE-OWNED
PROPERTIES, ABOUT AREAS WHERE WE
HAVE UNDISPUTED ADVANTAGE IN
SERVICES AND PHARMACEUTICALS,
GETTING THOSE PROTECTED SO THEY
CAN SELL OVERSEAS.
SEEMS TO ME THE OPPONENTS ARE
FIGHTING THE LAST WAR, THEY'RE
FIGHTING THE WAR ABOUT NAFTA
WHEN THIS IS A VERY DIFFERENT
TRADE AGREEMENT.
>> Woodruff: WAS IT THE
SELLING JOB OR THE SUBSTANCE?
>> IT WAS THE SUBSTANCE, JUDY.
THIS HAS BEEN THE PATTERN THAT
ONGOING ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
IN THE TRADE AGREEMENT FOR
WORKERS RIGHTS.
WHEN YOU'RE COMPETING, NOW AS
WORKERS IN VIETNAM ARE MAKING 50
CENTS AN HOUR, THAT IS A
DISADVANTAGE TO AMERICANS.
THERE IS NO ENFORCEMENT FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS AND
CERTAINLY NO ENFORCEMENT, ONLY
MECHANISM AS FAR AS CURRENCY
MANIPULATION WHICH THE JAPANESE
AND CHINESE USED TO BENEFIT IN
TRADE BY DRIVING DOWN THE PRICE
OF THEIR OWN GOODS TO THE
DISADVANTAGE OF OUR COUNTRY AS
WELL AS OUR WORKERS.
SO I DON'T ARGUE THAT THERE'S A
GREAT FUTURE IN ASIA BUT I DON'T
THINK THIS IS THE WAY TO IT.
AS FAR AS THE PRESIDENT'S
OFFENSIVE, TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE.
HE SHOWED UP AT THE
CONGRESSIONAL BASEBALL GAME LAST
NIGHT AND THE CAUCUS TODAY WHERE
HE SPOKE FOR 40 MINUTES AND
DIDN'T TAKE ANY QUESTIONS AND
BASICALLY SAID, I KNOW
UNEMPLOYED STEELWORKERS ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF CHICAGO, I CARE.
IT WAS NOT UNLIKE GEORGE BUSH'S
REELECTION CAMPAIGN IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE IN 1992 AND
QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS EMPATHY AND
QUESTIONS OF I CARE.
THAT DIDN'T PERSUADE ANYBODY.
>> Woodruff: AS YOU BOTH
POINTED OUT, CONGRESSMAN PETER
DEFAZIO SAID HE AND OTHERS WERE
OFFENDED BY WHAT THE PRESIDENT
SAID.
>> YOU HAVE TORE RELATIONSHIPS
AND THIS HAS BEEN A CONSTANT
THEME ESPECIALLY IN THE SECOND
TERM, A LOCK OF RELATIONSHIP,
AND GOING UP THERE AND BEING A
STRANGE AROUND NOT TAKING
QUESTIONS IS SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: THEY WILL TRY
COME BAC BACK TO IT NEXT WEEK.
SOMETHING ELSE THAT HAPPENED
THIS WEEK, THE WHITE HOUSE, THE
PRESIDENT, I GUESS, SURPRISING A
LOT OF PEOPLE, MARK, AND SAYING
HE WANTS TO SEND MORE MILITARY
TRAINERS AND ADVISORS TO IRAQ.
OPEN UP AT LEAST ONE MORE BASE.
THERE ARE REPORTS THERE MAY BE
SEVERAL MORE MILITARY BASES IN
IRAQ.
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
>> ADMISSION, AN ACKNOWLEDGMENT
THAT WHAT IS GOING ON IS NOT
WORKING, AND THE PRESIDENT,
ALTHOUGH SLOW TO DO SO AND
RESISTED, IS REALLY GOING BACK
ON WHAT HE HAD EXECUTED ONCE IN
OFFICE IN TWO TERMS AND THAT WAS
TO WIND DOWN AMERICAN PRESENCE
IN IRAQ, AND WE'VE SHOWN AN
ENORMOUS ABILITY TO DESTABILIZE
THE MIDDLE EAST AND NOT MUCH
SUCCESS IN TRYING TO STABILIZE
THE REGION.
THERE IS AN APPETITE IN THIS
COUNTRY FOR ENLARGED ACTIVITY.
AND THERE SEEMED TO BE IN THE
WONDERFUL DISCUSSION YOU HAD
THIS WEEK WITH GENERAL ZINNI, A
SECRETARY PANETTA AND OTHERS
THAT THERE SEEMED TO BE A
CONSENSUS THAT IT WASN'T GOING
TO HAPPEN WITHOUT GREATER U.S.
INVOLVEMENT AND ENGAGEMENT, AND
I JUST DON'T SEE THAT BEING A
REALITY EITHER POLITICALLY OR
MILITARILY.
>> Woodruff: THE MAJORITY VIEW
OF SOME OF THE ANALYSTS OUT
THERE, BUT DAVID IS IT THE RIGHT
THING TO DO NOW?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK THE DRAWDOWN OF THE
TROOPS WAS TOO FAST.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST MISTAKES OF
THE PRESIDENCY IS TO DRAW DOWN
THE TROOPS TOO FAST.
SOME STABILITY HAD BEEN
ACHIEVED, THE SUNNI TRIBES IN
SUNNI AREAS, DREW DOWN TOO FAST,
I.S.I.S. CAME IN.
THE TROOPS, WHAT 450 ADVISORS
WILL DO, THEIR EFFECT, THE KEY
THING IS WE WERE EFFECTIVELY
ARRIVED WITH SUNNI BACKED SHIAS.
THEY'RE SHIFTING, HELPING SOME
OF THE SUNNI TRIBES.
AND IT'S GOT TO BE THE SUNNI
TAKING OVER SUNNI AREAS.
IT DOES NOT WORK TO HAVE IRONY
BACKED SHIA TAKING OVER SUNNIS.
THAT'S A RECIPE FOR HOSTILITY
AND RESENT MEANT.
A LOT OF THE IRANI MILITIAS WERE
COMING IN, EXECUTING AND LOOTING
PLACES.
>> DAVID MAKES A GOOD POINT.
THE STATUS FORCE AGREEMENT, THE
DRAWDOWN OF U.S. TROOPS WAS
SIGNED, DEVELOPED AND EXECUTED
UNDER PRESIDENT BUSH, BUT I MAKE
ONEOUT POINTER, JUDY.
IN THE SEVERAL YEARS SINCE WORLD
WAR TWO, THERE HAS BEEN ONE
SUCCESSFUL AMERICAN MILITARY
VENTURE, AND THAT WAS THE
PERSIAN GULF WAR UNDER GEORGE
H.W. BUSH, AND IT HAD THE
ELEMENTS THAT ARE MISSING AND
HAVE BEEN MISSING IN EVERY ONE
SINCE.
IT HAD A LIMITED OBJECTIVE,
GUIDING SADDAM HUSSEIN OUT OF
KUWAIT.
IT HAD OVERWHELMING FORCE.
IT HAD POPULAR CONSENT.
IT HAD CONGRESSIONAL BACKING BY
THE OPPOSITION PARTY.
IT HAD U.N. SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THAT'S NOT THERE NOW?
>> AND A KNOWN EXIT STRATEGY.
I DON'T SEE ANY OF THOSE
ELEMENTS PRESENT IN ANYTHING
SINCE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, JUST TO
QUICKLY MOVE TO PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN BECAUSE I WANT TO GET
TO HILLARY CLINTON'S BIG
ANNOUNCEMENT RALLY TOMORROW,
DAVID.
NATIONAL SECURITY HAS BEEN A BIG
TOPIC AMONG THE REPUBLICANS, BUT
WE'RE HEARING THAT SECRETARY
CLINTON TOMORROW IS GOING TO BE
TALKING IN A MORE PERSONAL WAY.
WHAT DOES SHE NEED TO DO AS SHE
MOVES INTO THIS MORE PUBLIC
PHASE OF HER CAMPAIGN?
>> NOT THE FREE TRADE AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: WHICH IS WHAT SHE
IS CRITICIZED FOR.
>> SHE'S DODGING IT NOW.
SHE'S INTRODUCE HERSELF AS A
PERSON.
ALL THE REPORTS IS SHE'S GOING
TO TALK ABOUT HER MOM AND VERY
SAD CHILDHOOD AND, YOU KNOW, A
FEW OF THE THINGS PEOPLE DON'T
LIKE ABOUT HER, THE BIG ONE IS
HONESTY AND TRUSTWORTHINESS, AND
THE SECOND ONE IS DOES SHE
RELATE TO PEOPLE LIKE ME.
SHE'S LED A PRETTY AMAZING LIFE
IN THE LAST TWO DECADES BUT NOT
EXACTLY
BUT, EVEN THInrQ) AT A
RESTAURANT LIKE THAT WOULD GO A
LODGE WAY BECAUSE AS SECRETARY
OF STATE, AS SENATOR, AS GLOBAL
CELEBRITY, SHE HAS ARISEN INTO A
VERY STRICTLY-DEFINED ROLE WHICH
IS HOPEFULLY NOT HER WHOLE
PERSON.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
SHE NEEDS?
>> I AGREE ABOUT THE POINT ABOUT
HER HONESTY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU DO THAT.
RICHARD NIXON TRIED, I DON'T
COMPARE THE TWO, YOU CAN'T SAY,
I'M HONEST, I'M NOT A CROOK.
WHAT SHE HAS TO DO IS MAKE THE
CAMPAIGN ABOUT THE FUTURE.
THAT'S WHAT PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGNS ARE ABOUT, AND TELL UG
WHY SHE WANTS TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING SHE
HASN'T DONE THAT?
>> I DON'T THINK SHE HAS YET.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT IT HAS TO
BE.
IT'S A TRICKY POSITION TO RUN TO
SUCCEED AN INCUMBENT EXECUTIVE
IN OUR OWN PARTY, WHETHER A
MAYOR, GOVERNOR OR PRESIDENT,
BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO BE -- YOU
CAN'T BE DISLOYAL TO THE
PRESIDENT, GOVERNOR, MAYORO WHO
HAS HIS OR HER OWN LOYAL
CONSTITUENTS, BUT YOU HAVE TO
SOMEHOW SEPARATE YOURSELF.
AND I THINK AMERICANS EXPECT
OPTIMISM IN THEIR LEADERSHIP.
THE MOST POPULAR AND EFFECTIVE
LEADERS, WHETHER BILL CLINTON OR
RONALD REAGAN OR JACK KENNEDY
BROUGHT A SENSE OF OPTIMISM AND
POSSIBILITY.
THEY SEE HER ALREADY AS A STRONG
LEADER, WHICH IS IMPORTANT, BUT
I WOULD BE INTERESTED TO SEE
WHERE SHE STANDS ON THE TRADE
ACT AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN?
>> HER HUSBAND, A BIG PART WAS
FOREIGN POLICY, NAFTA 1993, AND
STAKED HIS PRESIDENCY ON IT,
WORKED HARD EFFECTIVELY TO GET
IT THROUGH, AND TOTALLY
IDENTIFIED WITH IT AND SO IS
SHE.
IN 2008, SHE WAS A LITTLE
CRITICAL, AND SHE AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA WERE AS CANDIDATES IN 2008
OF NAFTA AND WHATEVER IT MEANT.
BUT I THINK SHE'S CERTAINLY THE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
I THINK PEOPLE EXPECT HER TO BE
ON THE PRESIDENT'S SIDE, BUT,
OBVIOUSLY, THE POLITICAL REALITY
IN HER OWN PARTY THERE'S IN THE
A LOT OF SUPPORT THERE RIGHT
NOW.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU GET THE
SENSE, DAVID, HER CAMPAIGN HAS
FELT THEY COULD HOLD THAT OFF,
THAT TH DONEY'T NEED TO TALK
ABOUT TRADE AND OTHER ISSUES
JUST YET, THAT THEY DON'T NEED
TO ROLL IT ALL OUT.
>> THAT'S FAIR.
THEY DON'T NEED TO PRESENT ALL
THE POLICIES AT ONCE.
THERE HAVE BEEN ACCUSATIONS
SHE'S SHIFTING TOO FAR TO THE
LEFT AND TOO FAR A BASE
MOBILIZATION STRATEGY AND THE
TRADE WILL BE THE BIG TEST OF
THAT.
>> Woodruff: GENTLEMEN, NEXT
WEEK WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT JEB
BUSH.
HE ANNOUNCES MONDAY.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS, WE
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: SUMMER FILM SEASON
IS UPON US, A CRUCIAL TIME FOR
MOVIE STUDIOS TO DRAW BIG
AUDIENCES.
SO FAR THIS SEASON, TICKET SALES
ARE BELOW EXPECTATIONS.
BUT A POSSIBLE GAME CHANGER
OPENS TODAY, THE SEQUEL
"JURASSIC WORLD."
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS ON WHY
HOLLYWOOD IS BETTING MORE
HEAVILY ON THE BLOCKBUSTER
STRATEGY.
>> Brown: AVENGERS: AGE OF
ULTRON.
MAD MAX: FURY ROAD.
AND, FURIOUS 7
>> BRIAN, YOU'RE UP.
>> Brown: IN THEATERS NEAR YOU
THIS SUMMER, HOLLYWOOD IS
HEATING UP, AND LOOKING FOR A
HERO, A FAMILIAR HERO, TO
ENTERTAIN THE MASSES, AND BOOST
ITS OWN BOTTOM LINE.
FILM CRITIC MIKE SARGENT OF
PACIFICA RADIO:
>> YOU'RE SEEING A LOT OF
SEQUELS, REBOOTS, RE-
IMAGINING'S, THINGS THAT HAVE
SOME SORT OF FOLLOWING.
>> Reporter: AN EMPHASIS, THAT
IS, ON FILMS HOLLYWOOD AND WE,
THE CONSUMERS, ALREADY KNOW,
OR, AT LEAST, "KNEW" A RE-MAKE
OF AN OLD 80's FILM, LIKE
"POLTERGEIST," A RIFF ON A ONCE-
POPULAR TV SERIES, LIKE
"ENTOURAGE."
>> NEXT LEVEL IS COMING.
>> Reporter: SARGENT CALLS THESE
"POPCORN MOVIES."
>> I THINK THE AUDIENCE FOR A
POPCORN MOVIE IS THE AUDIENCE
WANTTO GS O INTO IN THE HEAT OF
SUMMER, GO INTO AN AIR
CONTIONDIER AND KIND OF CHECKOUT
YOU KNOW?
I THOUGHT YOU WERE DEAD.
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 5 WHERE
YOU KNOW IT'S GOING TO BE FUN.
IT'S NOT ABOUT ANYTHING.
THERE'S NO MESSAGE, THERE'S NO
EXPLORATION OF THE HUMAN
CONDITION BUT YOU'RE GOING TO
FORGET YOUR TROUBLES.
>> Brown: AND SUPERHEROS REMAIN
ALL THE RAGE.
STUDIOS HAVE ANNOUNCED PLANS TO
RELEASE NEARLY 30 MORE SUPERHERO
FILMS BETWEEN THIS SUMMER AND
2020.
>> SUPERHEROES ESSENTIALLY ARE
THE GREEK GODS OF TODAY.
BACK IN ANCIENT TIMES, THEY
RETOLD STORIES ABOUT GODS AND
THE THINGS THAT THEY DID,
HERCULES AND THINGS, ALL THESE
SUPER HUMAN THINGS.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT COMIC
BOOKS ARE TODAY.
EVEN IF YOU NEVER READ IRON MAN
OR A NUMBER OF CHARACTERS THAT
YOU HEAR ABOUT, YOU KNOW WHO
THEY ARE THEY ARE PART OF THE
ICONOGRAPHY OF AMERICA.
>> Reporter: AVOIDING RISKS ON
THE UNFAMILIAR, SPENDING, AND
HOPING TO NET LOTS OF MONEY.
PAUL DERGARABEDIAN ANALYZES
MOVIE TRENDS FOR RENTRAK, A
GLOBAL MEDIA MEASUREMENT COMPANY
SERVING THE ENTERTAINMENT
INDUSTRY.
>> ON AVERAGE THEY'RE SPENDING
$75 TO $100 MILLION AND OFTEN
MORE ON A BIG SUMMER TENT POLE
MOVIE.
YOU ADDED THAT $50 MILLION AT
LEAST IN MARKETING COST AND
SUDDENLY YOU HAVE TO CREATE
FILMS THAT ARE GUARANTEE A BIG
RETURN NOT JUST IN NORTH AMERICA
BUT AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS SUMMER
REPRESENTS 40% OF THE TOTAL YEAR
REVENUES FOR STUDIOS, BUT THE
DEFINITION OF "SUMMER" HAS
CHANGED.
>> IT USED TO BE THAT SUMMER
MOVIE SEASON OFFICIALLY STARTED
ON MEMORIAL WEEKEND AND PLAYED
THROUGH LABOR DAY.
THAT'S MOVED UP OFFICIALLY TO
THE FIRST WEEKEND IN MAY AND OF
COURSE WE SAW AVENGERS: AGE OF
ULTRON THIS YEAR KICKING OFF THE
SUMMER, LAST YEAR THE AMAZING
SPIDER MAN 2, THE YEAR BEFORE
THAT IRON MAN 3, ALL THAT FIRST
WEEKEND IN MAY.
SO THE SUMMER MOVIE SEASON IS
DEFINITELY WIDENING AT LEAST IN
THE PSYCHE OR EMOTIONALLY OR IN
THE PERCEPTION OF HOLLYWOOD.
>> WHO RUNS THE WORLD GIRLS
>> Reporter: INDUSTRY WATCHERS
ALSO SEE MORE FILMS AIMED AT THE
GROWING MARKET OF YOUNG GIRLS
AND WOMEN.
FILMS LIKE "PITCH PERFECT 2,"
YES, ANOTHER SEQUEL, "HOT
PURSUIT," AND "SPY."
>> IT USED TO BE THE 18 TO 24
YEAR-OLD MALE AND NOW WE'VE SEEN
WOMEN ARE REALLY POWERING FILMS.
>> WE'RE SEEING MORE FEMALE-
CENTRIC BIG MOVIES, NOT JUST
"WOMEN'S MOVIES" OR THINGS THAT
ARE MARKETED TO A FEMALE OR DATE
MARKET.
>> Reporter: SLATE MOVIE CRITIC
DANA EVENSTS:
>> MOVIES LIKE "SPY" WITH
MELISSA MCCARTHY IN THE STARRING
ROLE, AS KIND OF THIS JAMES BOND
PARODY.
OR "INSIDE OUT", THE PIXAR
MOVIE, WHICH WILL BE THE FIRST
PIXAR MOVIE TO HAVE A FEMALE
HEROINE, AND THE CONCEPT IS THAT
ALL OF HER EMOTIONS BECOME
CHARACTERS IN HER HEAD.
HER RAGE, HER LOVE, HER SADNESS,
ALL BECOME PERSONIFIED.
>> Reporter: SO MANY BIG FILMS,
AND MANY THAT WILL BOMB, OR AT
LEAST PERFORM BELOW
EXPECTATIONS.
>> DON'T THANK ME YET.
>> Brown: ONE OF THOSE, SO FAR
AT LEAST: THE DISNEY FILM,
"TOMORROWLAND", FEATURING HUGE
ROBOTS, AND GEORGE CLOONEY.
ITS POOR OPENING ON MEMORIAL DAY
WEEKEND RAISED SOME EARLY SUMMER
ALARMS THROUGHOUT THE INDUSTRY.
THE NEXT BIG TEST COMES THIS
WEEKEND, WITH THE RELEASE OF
"JURASSIC WORLD", THE FOURTH IN
THAT SCI-FI FRANCHISE.
WITH NO OTHER BLOCKBUSTER
OPENINGS COMPETING WITH IT,
ANALYSTS HAVE PREDICTED THE FILM
COULD EARN MORE THAN $100
MILLION IN ITS FIRST THREE DAYS.
FILM CRITICS, OF COURSE, FOCUS
ON "QUALITY" MORE THAN BOX
OFFICE, AND DANA STEVENS REMINDS
US THAT BIG DOESN'T HAVE TO MEAN
BAD.
>> WELL I'M HOPING "JURASSIC
WORLD" WILL BE ON THE CRAFT SIDE
AND IT WILL BE SORT OF TRUE TO
THE SPIELBERG VISION OF THE
ORIGINAL MOVIE.
>> ACTION!
>> AND THEY DID CHOOSE A A YOUNG
DIRECTOR, COLIN TREVORROW TO
DIRECT JURASSIC WORLD, WHO HAS
VERY FEW FILM CREDITS TO HIS
NAME BUT HE IS AN EXCITING A
CREATIVE YOUNG DIRECTOR AND THE
IDEA OF GIVING IT TO SOMEONE
WHO'S NOT A STUDIO FAMILIAR, BUT
SOMEONE WHO'S FROM THE INDIE
WOLD ARND FROM THE OUTSIDE,
MAKES ME THINK THAT THAT ONE
MIGHT HAVE SOME SORT OF REAL
SPIRIT.
>> Reporter: AND FOR THOSE WHO
WANT "SMALLER," MORE, WELL,
"HUMAN" STORIES, I ASKED FILM
CRITICS STEVENS AND SARGENT FOR
RECOMMENDATIONS.
>> IT'S CALLED "RESULTS."
IT'S THIS SMALLISH SCALE MOVIE
THAT'S SET IN TEXAS.
IT'S DIRECTED BY A YOUNGISH
DIRECTOR NAMED ANDREW BUJALSKI
WHO'S BEEN MAKING INTERESTING
MOVIES FOR YEARS THAT NOT ENOUGH
PEOPLE GO TO SEE.
>> THERE ARE TWO FILMS IN TERMS
OF FESTIVAL DARLINGS THAT STAND
OUT FOR ME, AND THEY DON'T
ALWAYS.
ONE IS A FILM CALLED "DOPE,"
WHICH IS, IT'S JUST AMAZING,
IT'S JUST A FILM AT RTHEMINDS
YOU, FOR ME, OF WHY I LOVE
AND ANOTHER FILM CALLED, "ME,
EARL AND THE DYING GIRL."
AND THAT'S ANOTHER GREAT FILM
AGAIN IT'S YOUNG FILMMAKERS WITH
SOMETHING THEY HAVE TO SAY,
SAYING A LOT.
>> Reporter: ONE LAST STRIKING
THOUGHT: EVEN WITH ALL THE TALK
OF TECHNOLOGY CHANGING OUR
VIEWING HABITS, PEOPLE DO STILL
GO TO THE MOVIE THEATER.
>> THE MOVIE IS SINGULAR IN IT
ITS EXPERIENCE YOU CAN'T REALLY
HAVE THAT EXPERIENCE ANYWHERE
ELSE, LOOK WE HAD TELEVISION
COME IN THE LATE FIFTIES, IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN THE HOME THEATRE
EVOLUTION IN THE 80'S, AND NOW
THIS ON DEMAND THE MOVIE THEATRE
CONTINUES TO BE THE PREMIER
EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: AND COMING TO A
THEATER NEAR YOU LATER THIS
MONTH: THE ORIGINAL SUMMER
BLOCKBUSTER, "JAWS", BEING RE-
RELEASED TO MARK ITS 40TH
ANNIVERSARY.
IF THAT MAKES YOU FEEL OLD, GO
JUMP IN THE OCEAN.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: LATE BREAKING
NEWS THIS EVENING.
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS SAY
THERE HAVE BEEN PROBLEMS WITH
OVERSEA PASSPORT AND VISA
SYSTEM.
A SPOKESPERSON OFFERED NO
EXPLANATION ON WHAT CAUSED THE
GLITCH BUT WERE WORKING TO
CORRECT THE PROBLEM.
THE C.I.A. RELEASED HUNDREDS OF
PAGES OF INTERNAL INVESTIGATIVE
FINDINGS RELATED TO THE
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS.
THE REPORT FOUND THAT, BEFORE
9/11, THE C.I.A. WAS RELUCTANT
TO SEEK AUTHORITY TO ASSASSINATE
OSAMA BIN LADEN.
THE SECTION OF THE REPORT ABOUT
SAUDI ARABIA IN SEPTEMBER 11 WAS
LARGELY REDACTED.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, WITH THE
ABUSE OF PRESCRIPTION
PAINKILLERS A GROWING PROBLEM,
ESPECIALLY AMONG SENIORS, A NEW
STUDY FINDS THAT MEDICARE DGRU
PLANS ARE ACTUALLY CUTTING BACK
ON COVERAGE OF NAME-BRAND PILLS
DESIGNED TO DETER ABUSE.
READ MORE ABOUT THE STUDY AND
THE CASE AGAINST GENERICS, ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
LATER TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK" A CLOSER LOOK AT HOW IRAQ,
THE TRADE DEAL, AND THE SUPREME
COURT'S UPCOMING DECISION ON
HEALTH CARE MAY AFFECT PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S LEGACY.
THAT'S LATER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY, A LOOK AT AN AMBITIOUS
EFFORT IN LOS ANGELES TO FIND
PERMANENT HOUSING AND SERVICES
FOR ALL OF THE CITY'S HOMELESS
VETERANS BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR.
ON MONDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR,
CUBAN EVOLUTION, JEFFREY BROWN
HAS A WEEKLONG SERIES OF REPORTS
FROM CUBA, HARI SREENIVASAN HAS
THIS PREVIEW.
>> COMING TO THE THE PBS
"NewsHour", SIGHTS AND SOUNDS,
HOPES AND FEARS AS CUBA FACES
CHANGES IN RELATIONS WITH THE
U.S.
WE LOOK AT THE HISTORY AND THE
ARCHITECTURE.
>> THE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S
FALLING APART, WHAT CAN HAPPEN
IF DEVELOPERS COME IN.
>> THE POLITICS OF CONTEMPORARY
ART.
>> ONE YEAR WE'LL BE ABLE TO
SAY, HEY, THIS IS US.
>> Sreenivasan: THE YEARNING
TO CONNECT TO THE WORLD AND MUCH
MORE IN OUR SERIES OF CUBA, THE
CUBA EVOLUTION, ALL TO COME ON
THE PBS "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: THAT STARTS
MONDAY.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.